The Research Guild has come into possession of the remains of a book that was seemingly written by a wolfkin named Ryo Ulafaren. This ambitious but slightly naive kinfolk decided that their "bloodship" with the gnolls could be overcame, and pressed on assuming this as fact. As we understand, from talking to people in the area of Losley, he was determined to mingle among the gnolls and learn their ways. He talked of taming the savagery of the gnolls, or at least learning enough to prevent the untold deaths from gnoll attacks. He was against eradication completely, believing peace was possible.  The book was found by a forager roaming the woods long after the gnolls left, along with the ribs, skull, femurs, and the clothing of, one assumes, Ryo Ulafaren.

Please transcribe the remnants of the book into a readable and studiable copy without destroying the original.

## The Study of the Gnoll, vol. 1

The name of Gnoll is rightly feared; whispered in hushed tones among those who dare speak of them at all. The trepidation is well deserved. Gnolls are viewed as some of, if not the, most savage creature on Katalossa. They hunt in small packs, overwhelming their prey and rendering them incapacitated. They then feast on the unconscious, but living, body. Their howl is almost as fierce as their claws, and can send even the bravest warrior running. Gnolls do not bother the dead, either for trophies or meat, preferring the still living. 

This one has followed the Gnoll band of Nithnu for months, and has learned much.  

Gnolls seemingly have a hierarchical social structure, based on strength, ferocity, and savageness. Females are usually stronger and are preferred leaders over males, but females will take orders from and will be led by stronger males if they rank higher in the social ladder. Males are more plentiful than females, making female Gnolls defacto leaders of small, all male, bands when they join. Small, daily skirmishes, or "skirmia" to assure rank are not unusual, but these fights rarely end in death or maiming. However, true fights for status always leaves one challenger dead. The true fights for hierarchy are fierce, with the loser of the fight being beheaded and his or her liver, stomach, heart, and intestines eaten from the body cavity, right there on the hunting ground. They gain no benefit from eating each other, yet it persists. This one has no idea why. This one has ever been able to speak to a Gnoll and ask.

Like previously stated, not all fights between Gnolls end in death. The skirmia, a name this one has coined for these fights, seem routine, almost boring in their presentation. A handshake hello, but with claws, if you will. This seems to suggest that Gnolls have an understanding of at least a primitive social structure, with higher and lower ranked individuals within the band. However, these skirmia can end in death in a number of instances, especially if food is scarce and tensions are running high. Females almost always win these fights against males, with only the lowest ranked or weakest females losing to males. These lower ranked individuals of either sex also tend to "punch up" by challenging stronger members, and subsequently die in the fighting that follows. Gnolls self weed the less strong and fierce, thus making the groups stronger and more dangerous as a whole to those the Gnoll views as prey; that is, everything that moves. 

The process in which a Gnoll becomes stronger is fascinating. When a strong Gnoll kills someone or something with essence in it's body, the Gnoll will proceed to consume a limb if available, biting and ripping the flesh from bone in a matter of seconds. They then move to the next appendage. Once all the limbs are destroyed, the Gnoll then cuts the body of the slain open and consumes the insides, with great focus on the stomach, liver, heart, and intestines. They eat the limbs and insides as though they are starving, but only while the victim is alive. Once the victim is dead, the Gnoll will lose interest quite quickly. No matter how may bodies the Gnoll eats, they will always eat like they are starving, eating until bursting.

As far as this one has observed, Gnolls do not take trophies of the slain, or even give objects held by civilized peoples any value, beyond what armor can do to protect them or tools to make fire and such. One theory as to why, is that they do not view any non Gnoll as worthy of taking a trophy from. But why then, do they not take trophies during skirmia, and why do they eat the insides of the slain instead? Is the very act of killing the trophy? Are Gnolls not predisposed to keeping bobbles and metals like other races? What system of value, if any, do they hold? This one is saddened that the process of gaining their trust is predicated on this one overcoming their blood lust, as they can not be bribed or impressed by objects or technology. In fact, this one may need to overcome the imposed civility on us Kinfolk, and embrace the animal within, in order to understand the Gnolls. This one remains conflicted on the subject and will write more on the topic at a later time.  

Gnolls often eat the slain to make themselves stronger.  They do not seem to bother the long, or even recently dead, preferring the dying or, even more preferably, the living. Gnolls start with the limbs, ripping the flesh from bone in seconds. Once the Gnoll has eaten all the limbs of his chosen victim, he will then devour the innards, stomach, liver, and heart, and then consume enough flesh to physically become stronger. This process is a mystery. Why does the Gnoll become markedly stronger after consuming the very essence of a living thing? Why does the Gnoll feel the need to kill and consume living flesh? Is there a reason? Or are the Gnolls genuinely so feral and savage that there isn't a reason beyond intrinsic Gnoll nature?

This one has observed the Gnoll in their hunting, and have seen an interesting thing. The Gnoll, especially a lower ranked individual, will often drag prey off of the main battlefield before eating. As long as they are not interrupted while carrying, and as long as the hunt is almost, or completely, over. Gnoll will also, and more commonly, just eat a downed person to gain strength, right there on the battlefield. When looking for these kill spots, this one would often walk the perimeter of the fighting field and find several after the Gnolls had moved on. Recently, this one has also observed the Gnoll taking live prey to eat at a later time, hobbling the limbs by breaking them instead of ripping them off, which often led to the premature death in the prey. This proves that the Gnoll can learn, especially using a cause/effect action. This one wants to test this theory soon. 

Often during these hunts, Gnolls will procure armor, shoes, and clothing from the slain. Tools, such as ways to make fire, are gathered during this time as well. Potions of healing are coveted and are frequently the cause of Gnoll on Gnoll death when collected, as these potions help heal the possessor, but puts a target on them as well. They do not stockpile these potions, instead drinking them immediately upon taking them from the body of their prey. Gnolls completely ignore items that are used to make these things however, suggesting that they do not posses any form of crafting these things. But why does a being who is obviously so close in Kinship not posses these traits so common among those of Katalossa?  

Gnolls are typically active during the day, with most activity being dawn and dusk. This one has observed the Gnoll being active as far into the night as midnight, but rarely during midday. If prey is scarce, the gnoll will be less active, and skirmia will increase. If prey is plentiful, skirmia decreases, the gnolls will hunt until the prey is depleted, and will then move on from the area. Prey include anything living and possessing of essence. Sometimes, essence isn't even needed, and Gnolls sometimes seem to be triggered by movement, often striking out at Undead, wolves, deer, and even those of Elemental sort. This one has had to be very careful in observing to not be detected.  

Gnolls possess several vocalizations, and seem to "speak" more than read body language. The laughter, chittering, and howling may sound like random noise to the uninitiated, but they indeed do have a language they can speak to each other. Of this, this one is sure. And, it seems as though the Gnolls have picked up the common tongue, saying phrases such as "Kill", "Eat", "Hungry", "Die", and "Run, Chase!". The howl of the Gnoll is overwhelming, sending the target involuntarily running if effected. Gnolls seem to come by this talent inherently. 

This one has observed the same band for the last few weeks and have named them all for ease of observation, and have recorded such here, until this one can write further on them: 

### Nithnu

The largest, fiercest, and fastest Gnoll this one has ever seen, Nithnu was killed when the band raided the small village of Losley. The people of Losley had hired a group of hunters to eliminate Nithnu's band. Nothing this one said or did would turn the village away from their regrettable decision to kill the band down to the last. 

Nithnu was a tall and beautiful Gnoll who led her band with a firm hand. She tolerated no skirmia beyond the most mild, preferring to keep their focus on the living beyond their band. They tolerated no living thing near their band, with the exception of this one. This one felt quite honored that Nithnu had chosen this one. 

### Irox

Irox was a greater Gnoll, second in command of his band, after the lead female Nithnu. Irox was one day beaten unconscious and tied with rope, then taken to the local jail to be studied. When he awoke, he was able to bite and tear the rope and free himself. Unarmed and unfed, Irox then started to rip and tear at his own flesh, eating as he went, until he could no longer stand. Then he just lay there, gnawing at the stump of his arm until he bled dry. Not one person moved to stop him; in fact, this one is unsure they could have had they tried.

### Thekxor

Thekxor was a blond Gnoll, something that this one rarely sees. He was also killed in Losley, along with Nithnu and Irox. Thekxor was always trying to appease Nithnu by fighting Irox, determined to kill him. Thekxor lasted far longer than this one thought he would, indecating to this one that Thekxor was smarter than Irox, and was biding his time until he could have taken on Irox. The people of Losley saw to it that this young Gnoll would never see the days when he had his own band. 

### Gronyt

Gronyt is slower and dumber than Irox and Thekxor, but alas, he is now in command of Nithnu's band. Gronyt has no restraint and zero tact, and is ruthless in his killing. This one has always felt Gronyt would do poorly as a leader, but we shall see how he gets on with those left, and those new ones joining.

### Dek

Dek is part of the lower band, those that never seem to rise in rank, and seem to be a sub band in that Nithnu, Irox, Thekxor, and Gronyt mostly ignore, but use in hunting their prey. Dek has the best nose out of everyone in the band, and in fact was the Gnoll who first found this one, lurking on the edges of their territory. Dek was often used in tracking a large, but easily accessed prey sources such as small farming villages. Dek was usually ranked highest under the First Four.

### Rarg

This one named Rarg for the sound she makes, unlike most sounds made by Gnolls. The rarg sound starts out as a normal howl, but usually ends in a gagging sound. Hence the hard "G". Rarg is sick in some way, some affliction of the chest, and has a broken foot that causes her to barely keep up with the band. Her hunger is great, often stealing kills and eating scraps to survive. Rarg will not last long if she doesn't heal soon.

### Rorgax 

The youngest and newest male to join the band, Rorgax is quick and fierce. This one is sure that Rorgax will rise through the ranks above Gronyt and will lead the band soon. Rorgax is also the Gnoll who this one is most wary of. Rorgax was often told off for hassling this one by Nithnu. With Nithnu gone, this one is unsure of the reaction of Rorgax when he sees this one next.

With Nithnu dead, this one must start over and gain the trust of Gronyt. The task won't be easy, but this one is certain the task can be completed. This one looks forward to the day when Gnoll and Kinfolk can live together in peace.