---
title: Safety Policies
---
**Affirmative Consent** – Based off of a sexual violence prevention mechanic, we at Crestfallen LARP want to ensure that all physical actions between parties are based upon clearly given consent. When taking part in any physical roleplay that is not expressly permitted within the rules, all parties must knowingly, voluntarily, and mutually agree to consent to the roleplay. This consent may be given through words, the ok hand symbol, or actions as long as they clearly convey consent. Consent may be revoked at any point, for any reason, by any party. Consent must be granted every time physical roleplay takes place unless previously negotiated and notated on a character sheet (note, this consent may also be revoked at any time).

**Age Requirement** – Crestfallen participants must be 18 years old to attend as we deal with mature subject matter and language.

**Armband (Orange)** – Orange arm/headbands denote a player who is a non-combatant. A player may be a non-combatant for any reason including but not limited to the following: Illness, Injury, Anxiety, Age, Stress, Disability, Mental Health, EMT Advisement. Additionally, players that are deemed unsafe with combat may be given non-combat status for a limited duration. Non-combat players may not be targeted with weapon or spell attacks. Ranged attacks that accidentally strike a non-combat player will be treated as a “Resist”. Non-combat characters may not use any skill from any category containing the word Combat. The only exception to this is Energy which may not be used in combat, but may be used for crafting or condition removal following a battle. All players may use the Killing Blow counted action on a non-combatant by pointing their weapon at the target from an arm’s length away rather than physically touching them. This action is stopped through normal means or if a combat player comes within arms reach of the attacker. A character that is feigning injury/death must make themselves known in order to prevent a Killing Blow in this fashion.

**Armband (Green)** – Green arm/headbands denote a member of the plot team or marshal (PC or NPC). These staff members should be contacted if there is a rules dispute, rules question, cabin thievery, pick pocket, or similar situation. Not every plot member or marshal may be able to assist in every issue, but they should be able to point a player in the correct direction for assistance.

**Armband (Blue)** – Blue arm/headbands denote an EMT. If there is a medical emergency an EMT is called for their medical knowledge to take charge of a situation and make the best decision possible. EMTs are volunteers and will do their best to make fair and safe judgements regarding player safety. EMTs rulings must be followed by all players to the best of their ability. If a player disregards an EMT ruling, they may be asked to leave or not be allowed to attend future events. Crestfallen LARP is a play at your own risk game. As such players should know their physical limitations and do their best to practice self-care as necessary.

**Assumed Consent** – While Crestfallen believes that players should ask for affirmative consent for physical actions, there is an Assumed Consent that players are taking part in a physical game and that certain touch is required. Crestfallen LARP assumes that all players consent to physical contact with all weapons, spell ammo, and approved game physical representations. Additionally, all players are assumed to consent on physical contact on the arms from the wrist to the shoulder for the purposes of spell touch casting, carrying, and counted actions. This assumed consent does NOT allow a player to grab, pull, or push forcefully. This assumed consent also does NOT allow a player to touch another player in a way to make them feel uncomfortable. This consent may be revoked at any time, for any reason.

**Clothing Requirements** – All attendees must be in appropriate clothing to take part in an active LARP game according to public decency requirements as well as appropriate clothing for the weather. Underwear/Shirtless gameplay is never acceptable.

**EMT** – If a medical emergency is taking place, a Pause must be called directly by the call of EMT which must be called and echoed until one arrives or it is known that one is in transit. EMTs wear blue armbands and make medical decisions to the best of their ability. Crestfallen LARP is a play at your own risk game. As such players should know their physical limitations and do their best to practice self-care as necessary.

**Look Down** – If a player has a problem with a situation that is going on in the game, they may opt out at any time by looking down and covering their eyes with a hand like a visor. The player and character leave the scene. The player should not be stopped or questioned regarding why the opt out has occurred. If there is an altercation between two PCs that causes a Look Down bow-out, the scene may need to follow a Negotiated Roleplay to ensure the story can go on in a safe but cohesive way. This should only be attempted after all parties have had a chance to analyze the situation and feel comfortable talking with all parties along with a plot representative. No player will be asked or forced to give any reasoning why the bow-out occurred, but all parties will be asked to give input to how the situation can be resolved.

**Negotiated Roleplay** – Negotiated Roleplay is where parties decide what will happen during a particular planned interaction between two or more individuals. Crestfallen LARP wishes to use this type of planned roleplay as a remedy to situations where players or characters bow-out of a scene for private personal reasons.Additionally, this mechanic is highly encouraged for any and all relationship dynamics at Crestfallen LARP. Relationships In Game and Out of Game are based upon communication. It is highly suggested that players plan these relationships well in advance and with appropriate safety checks to ensure all parties remain comfortable with the situation. This is not required, but highly recommended.
OK Check In – Players are encouraged to check on each other during stressful roleplay situations using an OK check in. A player who is concerned with a current situation should visibly show the OK hand sign to those they wish to check in with. Players may then give a thumbs up to continue, a thumbs down to show that there are issues and they wish to stop or fix the situation, or a level hand to show that they are unsure or things are starting to cause an issue. At this point roleplay may continue if all thumbs up are shown and a "Pause" should be called if there is a thumbs down to determine the problem and fix any situation before things get out of hand or to allow the player to use Look Down to walk away. A “so-so” wave is up to the asking players discretion but should indicate that a change in roleplay should occur.

**Out Of Game Headband (Pink)** – Sometimes a player needs to be out of game. There are many reasons for this such as a way to remove themselves from stressful roleplay, medical emergencies, phone calls, or interacting with the staff of the game. Often plot staff may need to show they are out of game to convey rulings, set up modules, or traveling without causing the other players to be alarmed. A player wearing a bright pink solid headband is out of game and should be ignored unless prompted by the wearer. A player should contact a staff member prior to going out of game if time allows. Bathrooms, vehicle, active cooking areas, restricted medical sleep areas, and the NPC hub area are always considered out of game unless otherwise clarified.

**Pause** – This is how the game stops for safety, emergency, or plot reasons. To stop game a player must call out “Pause”. All players must echo the call “Pause” when heard. All players must look down at the ground and kneel if possible. During the pause the person who called it and plot staff will determine the reason for the Pause and handle it appropriately. Once the reason for the pause is completed it will be asked if there is any reason the game should not continue. If there is, the pause is maintained to fix the new situation. If there is no reason the call will go out “3, 2, 1, Start”. During a pause players should not look around, gather gear/items, or converse unless it is part of the Pause.

**Thievery** - Stealing things in Crestfallen LARP must be very closely watched. A Marshal (Green Armband) must be contacted to steal from a cabin, public area, or when using game skills to steal. Characters may only steal in game cards and leaves from other players because they are the property of Crestfallen LARP and not the players themselves. To steal a weapon or other tagged item, the physical item must be taken and held by the player for at least one hour. Following this hour, the item must be given directly to a Marshall so that it may be returned to the player and the tag retrieved from the person who was robbed. A player may NEVER steal the physical property of another player.